README.md, before:


# Hells Triangle Challange - Java Solution 

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_java.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_java)

An implementation to solve hells triangle problem with java

## The Challenge

Given a triangle of numbers, find the maximum total from top to bottom Example:

```
   6
  3 5
 9 7 1
4 6 8 4
```

In this triangle the maximum total is:  6 + 5 + 7 + 8 = 26

An element can only be summed with one of the two nearest elements in the next row. 
For example: The element 3 in the 2nd row can only be summed with 9 and 7, but not with 1.

Your code will receive an (multidimensional) array as input. The triangle from above would be:
example = [[6],[3,5],[9,7,1],[4,6,8,4]]

## Getting Started

[Java](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/pt/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) are required.


```
> # Clone this repository
> $ git clone https://github.com/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_java.git
> $ cd hells_triangle_java
> # To run the tests
> $ mvn test 
```

## Solution

The first attempt was transform the triangles array in a binary tree, to be able to navigate through the nodes using a recursive funcion, but the process of create a tree was expenssive due iterate over the triangle multiple times and create a bunch of Node objects.

The second aproach was just iterate over the triangle recursivelly without creating aditional objects. In this case the result was archieved on 50% of the time the first aproach.

I choosed Java because it's one of the languages ​​I feel most comfortable using

[Click here to see Ruby implementation](https://github.com/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_ruby)

Commit message:

Edit README add run main class instructions

README.md, after:


# Hells Triangle Challange - Java Solution 

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_java.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_java)

An implementation to solve hells triangle problem with java

## The Challenge

Given a triangle of numbers, find the maximum total from top to bottom Example:

```
   6
  3 5
 9 7 1
4 6 8 4
```

In this triangle the maximum total is:  6 + 5 + 7 + 8 = 26

An element can only be summed with one of the two nearest elements in the next row. 
For example: The element 3 in the 2nd row can only be summed with 9 and 7, but not with 1.

Your code will receive an (multidimensional) array as input. The triangle from above would be:
example = [[6],[3,5],[9,7,1],[4,6,8,4]]

## Getting Started

[Java](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/pt/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) are required.


```
> # Clone this repository
> $ git clone https://github.com/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_java.git
> $ cd hells_triangle_java
> # To run the tests
> $ mvn test 
> # if you want to see a comparison between the two different implementations that I`ve made
> $ mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass="hells_triangle.App"
```

## Solution

The first attempt was transform the triangles array in a binary tree, to be able to navigate through the nodes using a recursive funcion, but the process of create a tree was expenssive due iterate over the triangle multiple times and create a bunch of Node objects.

The second aproach was just iterate over the triangle recursivelly without creating aditional objects. In this case the result was archieved on 50% of the time the first aproach.

I choosed Java because it's one of the languages ​​I feel most comfortable using

[Click here to see Ruby implementation](https://github.com/carlosliracl/hells_triangle_ruby)
